[DOCS-3350] Add control log volume and size guide (#14631)
DataDog/documentation: content/en/integrations/observability_pipelines/guide/control_log_volume_and_size.md

---
title: Control Log Volume and Size Using Observability Pipelines
kind: guide
further_reading:
  - link: "/integrations/observability_pipelines/working_with_data/"
    tag: "Documentation"
    text: "Working with data using Vector"
  - link: /integrations/observability_pipelines/vector_configurations/
    tag: Documentation
    text: Learn more about Vector configurations
---

## Overview

> As your organization scales, your log volume grows, which means that the cost of ingesting and indexing your downstream services (for example, log management solutions, SIEMs, and so forth) also rises. This guide walks you through using Vector transforms to cut down on log volume and trim down the size of your logs to control your costs *before* data leaves your network. 

Reviewer: fix to: "indexing in your downstream services"

Reviewer: fix to: "*before* data leaves your infrastructure or network."

> As your organization scales, your log volume grows, which means that the cost of ingesting and indexing your downstream services (for example, log management solutions, SIEMs, and so forth) also rises. This guide walks you through using Vector transforms to cut down on log volume and trim down the size of your logs to control your costs *before* data leaves your network. 

Author: ```suggestion
As your organization scales, your log volume grows, which means that the cost of ingesting and indexing in your downstream services (for example, log management solutions, SIEMs, and so forth) also rises. This guide walks you through using Vector transforms to cut down on log volume and trim down the size of your logs to control your costs *before* data leaves your infrastructure or network. 
```

{{< tabs >}}
{{% tab "YAML" %}}

```yaml
transforms:
  my_transform_id:
    type: reduce
    inputs:
      - my-source-or-transform-id
    group_by:
      - host
      - pid
      - tid
    merge_strategies:
      message: concat_newline
    starts_when: match(string!(.message), r'^[^\\s]')
```

{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab "TOML" %}}

```toml
[transforms.my_transform_id]
type = "reduce"
inputs = [ "my-source-or-transform-id" ]
group_by = [ "host", "pid", "tid" ]
starts_when = "match(string!(.message), r'^[^\\s]')"

[transforms.my_transform_id.merge_strategies]
  message = "concat_newline"
```

{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab "JSON" %}}

```json
{
  "transforms": {
    "my_transform_id": {
      "type": "reduce",
      "inputs": [
        "my-source-or-transform-id"
      ],
      "group_by": [
        "host",
        "pid",
        "tid"
      ],
      "merge_strategies": {
        "message": "concat_newline"
      },
      "starts_when": "match(string!(.message), r'^[^\\s]')"
    }
  }
}
```

{{% /tab %}}
{{< /tabs >}}

In the reduce transform, `group_by` is an ordered list of fields used to group events. In this example, the events are grouped by `host`, `pid`, and `tid` fields. 

> `merge_strategies` is a map of field names to custom merge strategies. There are [different merge strategies][10], ranging from `array`, where each value is appended to an array, to `sum`, which adds all numeric values. In this example, `concat_newline` is used, where each string value is concatenated then delimited by a newline.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`merge_strategies` is a map of field names to custom merge strategies. There are [different merge strategies][10], including `array`, where each value is appended to an array, and `sum`, which adds all numeric values. In this example, `concat_newline` is used, where each string value is concatenated, then delimited by a newline.
```

> `starts_when` is a condition used to distinguish the first event of a transaction. If this condition resolves to `true` for an event, the previous transaction is flushed without this event and a new transaction is started. In this example, events with `.message` that do not match the `^[^\\s]` regular expression condition are reduced into a single event. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`starts_when` is a condition used to distinguish the first event of a transaction. If this condition resolves to `true` for an event, the previous transaction is flushed without this event, and a new transaction is started. In this example, events with `.message` that do not match the `^[^\\s]` regular expression condition are reduced into a single event. 
```
